D-R35: returned hardware probe and driver debug-data audit
2026-10-04; report archived at 18:04:35 UTC

Outcome and card state
The handheld completed 45 samples across approximately 104 seconds, producing
660 valid JSON records without a report cap or stderr output. The report was
copied to the PC and checked by SHA-256 before cleanup. The original init was
restored byte-for-byte, and only the v1 probe's five owned paths were removed.
cleanup-verification.json records this restoration and the unchanged critical
binary hashes. No saves or ROMs were changed.

A separate one-boot v2 follow-up has since been installed. It adds console,
TTY, kernel-log and filtered kernel-symbol evidence, plus MTD metadata. Its
only existing-file change is a tracked init hook. It does not modify the
working adapter, core, vrtemu or driver.so. Hardware-Runtime-v2 contains the
original init, diff, binary, verification and installation manifest. Use
build/collect-hardware-runtime-probe.py on return to archive and restore it.

What this unit establishes
One online, present and possible CPU: Cortex-A7 r0p5 with NEON and VFPv4.
Linux 4.19.128 / Buildroot 2020.02 / GCC 9.3.0, ARMv7 hard-float runtime.
The complete FDT is 10490 bytes and is saved as device-tree.dtb with a decoded
property inventory in device-tree.json. Model: Generalplus EMU Board;
compatible: generalplus,gpa7xxxa-emu and generalplus,gpa7xxxa.
Its CPU clock-frequency property is 666000000 Hz. This is a firmware-declared
clock, not a measured live operating clock. No cpufreq/cache/thermal glob
entries were returned, and clk_summary was absent. Actual clock stability,
cache dimensions and thermal state remain unmeasured.

The tree contains three pscaler nodes, a general scale node, PPU/display,
Vivante GPU, DMA, DAC, rotators and other multimedia devices. A generic tree
entry marked okay is not proof the corresponding accelerator is usable.
Iomem shows bound resource reservations for pscaler A/B/Y. PSCA A interrupts
are active; B and Y showed no interrupts during this run. No galcore module,
device node or version interface was available. Exact silicon SKU remains
unconfirmed; do not treat this tree as proof of GPA7740A specifically.

RAM and swap
The active kernel map covers 48 MiB system RAM plus 16 MiB chunkmem reserved
at 0x03000000. Usable Linux MemTotal is 43120 KiB. The tree's memory node
instead declares a 32 MiB default, overridden by the mem=48MB boot argument.
This mismatch is a reason not to use the generic tree as a physical RAM census.
The 48+16 layout is consistent with a 64 MiB arrangement.
During samples MemAvailable fell from 5120 to 4812 KiB. The report itself grows
in the collector's RAM, so this decline is not evidence of an emulator leak.
Swap used stayed constant at 256 KiB; vrtemu's four status snapshots reported
VmSwap=0, with no growth in its 16 major faults. There is no evidence here of
sustained game paging to SD. This does not rule out every memory stall.

CPU and thread measurements
Per-thread /proc stat deltas divided by CLK_TCK=100 and actual elapsed time:
  main supervisor TID 475: 0.191% user, 0.000% kernel.
  vrtemu main TID 480:    84.920% user, 0.617% kernel.
  vrtemu worker TID 482:   1.065% user, 0.000% kernel.
  vrtemu worker TID 483:   0.191% user, 3.196% kernel.
All have nice=0, policy=0 (ordinary scheduling), RT priority=0, CPU=0.
The supervisor and worker 482 were in hrtimer_nanosleep at every detail
snapshot; worker 483 was in futex_wait_queue_me. This is consistent with a
sleeping input/polling worker and the driver's condition-variable display
worker. Kernel snapshots alone do not prove which function owns a TID.
thread-creation-sites.txt retains direct pthread_create callers in the two
vendor binaries. No claim of a separate dedicated audio feeder is established.
The main thread's accounting combines core, adapter and host work; it cannot
attribute 84.920% to SNES rendering alone. The worker's kernel time also cannot
separate open/ioctl/close, scaling waits, cache work or display submission.
The report lacks scene markers, so do not label individual intervals as map
versus party menu solely from the requested test sequence.

Important accounting limit: /proc stat contains 83.4 accounted CPU seconds
over 89.229 seconds wall time. Its IRQ and softIRQ time counters are zero even
though interrupts and context switches advanced. /proc uptime idle accounting
also differs from the stat idle delta. Do not turn normalized global tick
percentages into an exact idle headroom or interrupt CPU-cost claim.
Proc schedstat returned empty data; scheduler runqueue timing is unavailable.
Two-second snapshots and 10-ms accounting units cannot expose each brief stall.

Unexpected interrupt load
Between the first and last sampled IRQ snapshots, Linux IRQ 19 advanced by
620160, or approximately 6955.4 interrupts/second. The reported hardware line
is GIC-0 69 and its handler label is (null).
The tree's uart@C0070000 specifies SPI 0x25 (37). Linux's primary GIC mapping
adds 32 to an SPI number, producing hardware line 69. That same UART is the
serial0 alias and chosen stdout-path is serial0:115200n8. This makes the serial
console UART the strongly supported identity, rather than the DAC interrupt.
The DAC node specifies SPIs 54/55, which correspond to hardware lines 86/87.
IRQ labels and DT mapping alone cannot identify TX/RX activity or its cause.
Possible causes include logging, receive-line activity or driver interrupt
handling. Interrupt count is not byte count or CPU time. No causal connection
to clicks or a quantified speedup from silencing output is yet established.
The next probe reads /proc/tty/driver counters, console metadata, process FD
symlink targets, and two non-consuming kernel log snapshots to resolve this.
GIC mapping source:
https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/v4.19/drivers/irqchip/irq-gic.c

Hardware display activity
PSCA A and PPU IRQ counters each advanced by exactly 3868 over the measured
89.16-second IRQ interval, about 43.38 events/second. This supports an active
scaler/display pipeline. It is not a measurement of panel refresh frequency,
emulated game steps, completed distinct pictures, or a frameskip percentage.
DMA_INT advanced 961 (10.78/second) but its endpoint is not identified here.

PMU and audio limitations
The software task-clock perf event worked. Cycles, instructions, branch misses,
L1D misses and a raw L2 refill event returned ENOENT. Event-source sysfs showed
software and breakpoint only; the FDT contains no PMU node. Hardware PMU access
through the tested Linux interface is unavailable. This does not mean the A7
physically lacks a PMU. Kernel support/description requires further recovery.
Kernel config.gz was absent, so no configuration option is claimed confirmed.

/dev/dsp and ALSA playback pcmC0D0p exist, and vendor ASoC playback modules are
loaded. However /proc/asound is absent, so no active hardware rate, period or
buffer size was captured. Disabled ALSA proc support is a plausible explanation,
not a confirmed kernel configuration. Native ALSA metadata/ioctl inspection is
a later isolated test; never reopen an active audio device blindly to query it.
https://www.kernel.org/doc/html/v4.19/sound/designs/procfile.html

Checking the new pasted driver analysis
The preserved driver.so genuinely contains DWARF. extract-driver-dwarf.py
recovered 37 structure/enum entries and 32 function descriptions from two
compilation units, vfb.c and driver.c. Compiler metadata identifies GCC 9.3.0,
cortex-a7, neon-vfpv4, hard-float and O2. This is debug metadata, not original
source recovery. driver-dwarf.json retains the typed ABI evidence.
gpPScalerPara_s is exactly 228 bytes. Verified byte offsets:
  frame_queue_enable=72; bypass_frame_queue_enable=84;
  drop_frame_div=98; drop_frame_fra=99.
PIPELINE_SCALER_STATUS_FRAME_DONE has enum value 2.
Those facts support the pasted account of the interface. They do not establish
which queue modes the kernel implements, ownership rules, or a legal continuous
operation sequence. Some SDK fields can be unused or conditional.

The existing annotated assembly establishes a real ScaleDisplayThread in
driver.so, a one-pending-job state, producer waiting, per-job PScaleRun device
open/setup/start/status/stop/close, and clearing the pending bit before FlipVFB.
Therefore core-call wall time can contain display backpressure and preemption.
But the worker already operates concurrently with the emulator; the proposed
improvement is deeper overlap and better buffer/queue ownership, not the first
introduction of a display worker. Buffers still cannot be reused before the
hardware is finished reading them. Any replacement must preserve that rule.

Driver audio is a nonblocking OSS write path; its DWARF public playframe return
type is void. Existing write-level audits observed accepted batches, which does
not prove uninterrupted DAC consumption. A new host must deliberately handle
queue depth and partial writes, rather than assume a callback return solves it.
The installed Plus already contains NEON arithmetic in the DSP mixer. A flags-
only SIMD theory is contradicted by its actual disassembly; hot-path profiling
is still needed before selecting SIMD work.

Kernel-side recovery next
The existing export's built-in-module list includes the scaler implementations;
their .ko binaries/source are not present. A built-in driver cannot be copied
out as a .ko simply because it has a module name. The complete DT is available
now, but no kernel image with symbols or scaler source has been recovered.
The v2 probe adds bounded relevant /proc/kallsyms names, modules.builtin, scaler
device identity and MTD partition metadata. Symbols can expose functions but
do not supply their instructions/source. MTD metadata can guide a later image
extraction; this probe never opens raw flash devices or loads kernel modules.

Next handheld run
Safely eject D:, boot normally, launch FF6 promptly, spend roughly 30 seconds
on a map, 20 seconds in the party menu, then return to the map. Let the device
remain running for at least two minutes after boot, then shut down normally
and reconnect D:. Exact scene timing is optional; serial/kernel identification
is the primary objective. The probe runs once; a missing marker prevents repeat
execution. Its result and boot hook will be archived and cleaned on return.
